My background is in Formal Methods (FM), a branch of
theoretical computer science, that supplies
mathematical foundations and rigorous methodologies for
the engineering and analysis of systems with a digital
component.  The three cornerstones of FM are modeling,
verification and synthesis of such systems.

Specifically, I have worked on the following models of
computation: Markov chains, timed systems, multi-agent
systems that communicate via token-passing, broadcast,
asynchronous rendezvous,  mobile agents that can detect
collisions, petri-nets, and others.  I have expertise
in standard specification languages (e.g., modal
logics, temporal logics, strategic logics) as well as
quantitative extensions of these (e.g., by quantifiers
that can count, and aggregation functions). 

In my work I have used and developed techniques based
on mathematical logic, automata theory, game theory and
graph theory. 

My research trajectory has been shifting from the
investigation of abstract mathematical objects
[C19-C29] towards more concrete systems [C1-C18]
inspired by distributed computing, artificial
intelligence, and multi-agent systems. 

I project the following main research activity at IMT:
investigate Formal Methods for Multi-agent systems.

MAS involve multiple individual entites (these may be
people, software, robots, etc.) each with their own
goals.  Such systems can be viewed as multi-player
games, and thus notions from game-theory (e.g.,
strategies, knowledge, and equilibria) are used to
reason about them.  Agents in realistic MAS often lack
information about other agents and the environment, and
this is often categorised in one of two ways: a)
incomplete information and b) imperfect information. In
all cases, the basic theoretical problem is to find
classes of MAS in which verification is decidable, and
in this case, of low complexity.

In a little more detail, incomplete-information refers
to uncertainty about the environment (i.e., the
structure of the game). I have considered two sources
of incomplete information for MAS: the number of agents
may not be known [B1,C9,C13,C14,C17,C18,J1,J3]; and the
environment the agents are operating in is
partially-known [C7,C12,C16]. 

Imperfect information refers to the fact that even if
agents have certainty about the structure of the
system, they may not know exactly which state the
system is in. The associated logics for reasoning about
such systems are called epistemic logics. I have
studied strategic-epistemic logics in [C1, C2, C3, C8,
C10], including ones in which one can express
equilibria.

At IMT, I intend to further and deepen this direction.
In particular, the MAS/AI community is designing and
analysing many modern and topical systems, e.g.,
privacy preserving databases, opinion diffusion in
social networks, mechanism design in economic networks,
disease spread in epidemiological models.  All of
these, and many others, have and can benefit from
methodologies and techniques developed in FM.
