Multiple research positions available in the School of Computer Science,
University of Sydney

A PhD scholarship, research-internship, and summer scholarship are available.

Specific topics of interest include: 
- Formal Methods (Verification, Synthesis, Monitoring) of Autonomous Systems,
  Multi-agent Systems and Distributed Systems
- Logics in Artificial Intelligence
- Foundations of Planning
- Automata and Games

The successful candidates will join the Computational Logic for Artificial
Intelligence (LOGIC-AI) Lab, under the supervision of Dr. Sasha Rubin
(sasharubin.github.io/).


PhD scholarship (3 years)
 
An ideal candidate for the PhD scholarship will be able to provide evidence of
a strong background in formal methods or mathematical sophistication, and prior
research experience.  The PhD scholarship includes:

1. Tuition fees.
2. A living allowance of 35,000AUD per year for 3 years, exempt from taxes,
with the potential of a topup of 5,000AUD per year, taxed.
3. Funding to present at workshops and conferences.
4. No teaching obligations, and the option of paid tutoring.


Research internship (3-6 months)

An ideal candidate for the research internship will be able to provide evidence
of a strong computational or mathematical background, and the potential to
pursue a PhD. The internship funding includes (subject to budget confirmation):

1. A single return flight to Sydney.
2. A weekly stipend to help cover rent.


Summer scholarship (10 weeks, approx 2 December 2019 to 23 February 2020)

An ideal candidate for the summer scholarship will have a strong background in
discrete mathematics and/or formal languages and logic. The scholarship funding
is 5,000AUD.  See https://tinyurl.com/y4o4utmk for details about eligibility
and application procedures (the title of the project is CS2019-20 Verifying
probabilistic models).


Applications for PhD scholarship and Research Internship

Interested candidates should email Sasha Rubin (sasha.rubin@sydney.edu.au) a
CV, the contact information of at least two references, and details of any
prior research experience. Candidates for the PhD scholarship and Research
Internship may be asked to read and report on a recent conference paper
published in a conference such as AAAI, IJCAI, AAMAS, ICAPS, KR, LICS, and CSL.
Informal enquiries are welcome. 

Applications will be processed as they arrive.


Sydney

The School of Computer Science at The University of Sydney offers a first-class
research environment, and Sydney has consistently been ranked 10th worldwide in
the Mercer Quality of Living Survey.

The following quotation is from https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Sydney:

"Sydney is the Harbour City. It is the largest, oldest and most cosmopolitan
city in Australia with an enviable reputation as one of the world's most
beautiful and liveable cities. Brimming with history, nature, culture, art,
fashion, cuisine and design, it is set next to miles of ocean coastline and
sandy surf beaches."

