Course description
------------------
Milestones in solving games on graphs

Games on graphs are a useful mathematical model of many phenomena in
computer science that involve interaction between
players/agents/components.  Solving a game means deciding if a given
player has a winning strategy. There are a number of classes of games
whose complexity are in NP \cap co-NP, but are not known to be in P,
i.e., parity games, mean-payoff games, discounted payoff games, simple
stochastic games. This year, there was a breakthrough in the analysis
of parity games, a deceptively simply class of games with tight
connections to deep results in logic and automata theory. A team from
New Zealand and Singapore [Calude et. al. 2017] gave a
quasi-polynomial time algorithm for solving parity games --- previous
algorithms were mildly subexponential. 

I will chart a course through the theory of games on graphs, covering 
determinacy, memory required for winning, and the complexity of solving 
games. I will start with foundational work and end with very recent results.

I will draw material from the following core papers:
- Ehrenfeucht and Mycielski (1979). Positional strategies for mean
  payoff games.
- McNaughton (1993). Infinite games played on finite graphs.
- Zwick and Paterson (1995). The complexity of mean payoff games.
- Dziembowski, Jurdzinski, and Walukiewicz (1997). How much memory is
  needed to win infinite games?
- Zielonka (1998). Infinite games on finitely coloured graphs with
  applications to automata on infinite trees.
- Voge and Jurdzinski (2000). A discrete strategy improvement 
  algorithm for solving parity games.
- Chatterjee, Henzinger, and Jurdzinski (2005). Mean-payoff parity
  games.
- Schewe (2007). Solving Parity Games in Big Steps.
- Jurdzinski, Paterson, and Zwick (2008). A deterministic 
  subexponential algorithm for solving parity games.
- Friedmann (2009). An exponential lower bound for the parity game
  strategy improvement algorithm as we know it.
- Benerecetti, Dell'Erba and Mogavero (2016). Solving parity games via
  priority promotion.
- Aminof and Rubin (2016). First Cycle Games.
- Calude, Jain, Khoussainov, Li, and Stephan (2017). Deciding parity
  games in quasipolynomial time.
- Jurdzinski and Lazic (2017). Succinct progress measures for solving
  parity games.

For credit, participants can give a talk on a classic or current paper. 
There are a variety of topics to choose from: the tight connection between
graph-games and logic and automata-theory, the use of graph-games in
formal-methods (modeling, verification, synthesis, testing, 
composition, simulation), the use of graph-games in AI (automated
planning, verification in robotics, general-game playing), or
extensions of the basic model (multiplayer games, partial-information
games, stochastic games, pushdown games, timed games).


Additional reading
------------------
- Gradel, Thomas, and Wilke (Eds.) (2002). Automata, Logics, and
  Infinite Games: A Guide to Current Research.
- Apt and Gradel (Eds.) (2011). Lectures in Game Theory for Computer
  Scientists.

Aim of course
-------------
The aim of this course is to introduce the mathematical theory and algorithmic results about graph-games, 
to convey how graph-games form the foundation of formal-methods, and how they are used in AI.

Key words
---------
games on graphs
qualitative objectives
quantitative objectives
reachability games
parity games
mean-payoff games
controller synthesis
determinacy
finite-state strategies
algorithms and complexity of solving games
foundations of formal-methods
games in automated planning in AI
tree automata
logical specifications

ECTCS breakdown
---------------
25h lectures + 25h reading and discussing the papers covered by the lecturer + 25 preparing and giving a presentation

Schedule
--------
8 x 2-hour lectures



---


Additional Papers
-----------------
Reif (1979). Universal games of incomplete information. 
Gurevich and Harrington (1982). Trees, automata, and games.
Pnueli and Rosner (1989). On the Synthesis of a Reactive Module.
Emerson and Jutla (1991). Tree automata, mu-calculus and determinacy.
Kupferman and Vardi (1998). Weak alternating automata and tree automata emptiness. 
Alur, Henzinger, and Kupferman (2002). Alternating-time temporal logic. 
Mogavero, Murano, Perelli, Vardi (2014). Reasoning About Strategies: On the Model-Checking Problem



