On the Expressive Power of Sub-Propositional Fragments of Modal Logic.

This paper is about the relative expressive power of fragments of multi-modal logic.

The fragments considered are intersections of the Horn, Krom, Box and Diamond fragments.

The picture that emerges is that expressive power reflects syntactic power, with the notable exception
that Krom, Krom+Diamond, and Krom+Box are equi-expressive.

This work is novel (previous work mainly considered uni-modal logic), and the problem is of value and interest to the modal logic community, and, as briefly discussed in the paper, has applications to temporal logic and HS logic.

My main concern is the preliminary nature of the paper:
1. The picture (of relative expressive power) is not complete. Is it hard to get the missing edges? Do the usual techniques fail?
2. The relationship between expressive power and the complexity of satisfiability is only briefly discussed. Such a discussion is important since one of the stated motivations is to find logics with good complexity.
3. The applications to fragments of LTL and HS are only briefly mentioned (end of section 5).
4. The notion of "relative expressive power" is formalised in two ways: strong and weak. The relevance/importance of these two notions
is only briefly discussed (end of section 2).
5. The novelty of the proofs is not discussed. How much is a simple extension of [19]?

If accepted, I strongly recommend the authors to deal with these issues, especially 2-5. 

Additional comments.
- Since they are central objects in this paper, I think it is worth spending a little more time motivating the definitions of weak and strong expressivity. E.g., give more examples of strong-expressivity.
- The ordering at the start of section 3 (from [19]) looks like a type of simulation. Is it?
- The GR(1) fragment of LTL (Pnueli et al) might be worth mentioning. 
Realisability has lower complexity (1EXPTIME) than for full LTL (2EXPTIME).
- Finite structures are particularly relevant in computer science. Which of the results also hold for finite structures? 
- Lemmas 5: The notation "The fragment L is closed under intersection" is a bit strange; the logic L is closed under intersection (see the syntax). I guess it is better to say that the models of a formula of L are closed under intersection.
- Lemma 7: Also, the notation that a logic is closed under product seems strange to me. 
