ACADEMIC INTERESTS
My main academic trajectory is to contribute to foundations of Formal
Methods (FM) for Artificial Intelligence (AI). This is motivated by
the problem of developing AI techniques that are dependable and
explainable, i.e., the fact that, as the use of AI explodes in
everyday life we desire guarantees that the AI systems are correct
(dependable AI), and ways to enable users to understand why an AI
system takes the actions it does (explainable AI). 

My focus has been on modeling, specification and verification of
discrete systems, especially multi-agent systems (i.e., systems
consisting of multiple rational agents, distributed in space, with
possibly conflicting goals, in an unpredictable or unknown
environment).  In my work I have used and developed techniques based
on mathematical logic, automata theory, game theory and graph theory. 

I have built a large network of collaborators, and have connections
with a number of groups, including those in Naples (Murano), Rome (De
Giacomo), Barcelona (Geffner), Imperial (Lomuscio), Oxford
(Wooldridge) and Rice (Vardi).  I will share these collaborations with
students and faculty at GSSI.

PROJECTED TEACHING/SUPERVISION ACTIVITIES
I have collaborated with a number of PhD students [26, 18, 15, 10, 4,
3] and a number of undergraduate students [21,22,23]. I will continue
to collaborate with PhD students: exciting PhD topics include
parameterised synthesis (known as "generalised planning" in the AI
literature), rational synthesis and the problem of computing
equilibria (a topic at the intersection of Game Theory and FM),
foundations and applications of quantitative specification languages,
and connections between automata theory and classical subfields of AI
such as argumentation theory.

I would like to teach courses such as "Introduction to Formal
Methods", "Games and Automata for Verification and Synthesis",
"Introduction to Multi-agent Systems" and "Logics for Multi-agent
Systems".


PROJECTED RESEARCH ACTIVITIES
I project two main research activities at GSSI.

(1) I intend to investigate normal and speculative questions in Formal
Methods, with a focus on key classes of infinite-state systems (I use
"normal" in a similar sense to Kuhn's "normal science", i.e., research
acknowledged for a time as supplying the foundation for its further
practice).  I plan to:
- investigate foundational issues (modeling, verification, synthesis)
  in formal methods of parameterised systems and networks. 
- investigate more speculative issues such as "What is synthesis and
  how can it be formalised?" (an active topic of debate, and the topic
  of work in progress).

(2) A second goal, building on the first, and arguably more important,
is that I intend contribute to building bridges between the Formal
Methods (FM) and the Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Multi-agent systems
(MAS) communities.

There is a non-trivial overlap between these communities, both on the
level of problems and gross techniques. For instance, "synthesis" in
FM is called "planning" in AI; many influential languages in AI and FM
are explicitly based on mathematical logic (e.g., situation calculus,
alternating-time temporal logic); abstractions are central in the
theory and practice of FM, and there is work in MAS/AI that implicitly
uses abstractions.

Although I come from the Formal Methods community, I have recently
contributed a number of works that import and adapt methodologies and
techniques from FM to MAS/AI [1,3,4,5,9,11,15,16]. I stress that some
of my key contributions were to identify which models, amongst many,
from FM are suitable for MAS/AI.

At GSSI, I intend to further and deepen this direction. In particular,
the MAS/AI community is designing and analysing many modern and
topical systems, e.g., opinion diffusion in social networks, mechanism
design in economic networks, disease spread in epidemiological models.
All of these, and many others, have and can benefit from methodologies
and techniques developed in FM.

High rewards typically come with high risks, and this second activity
is no exception.  There are principled differences between these
communities that should be carefully understood in order to build
bridges between them. In time, as I further integrate in the MAS/AI
community, I will develop the insight and experience to isolate and
expand the appropriate connections between these communities.


