Summary: 
In discrete event sysytems (DES) the system to be controlled is 
typically modeled as a set of interacting finite-state machines. 
A controller should be devised that disables controllable actions 
so that the resulting traces satisfy some property (such as safety 
conditions).

This paper supplies a polynomial (in fact, cubic) translation of a
controller synthesis of DES to the problem of finding strong plans 
of fully observable non-deterministic planning problems with 
conditional effects. 

The paper evaluates the translation by comparing the runtimes and 
number of problems solved for six DES problems of sizes up to about 
46,000 states each.


Justification for scores.

Originality:
The proposed translation is new and, as the authors state, also
simple.

Technical Quality:
I could not verify that the translation is correct. The reason is that
the semantics of FONDP and DES are not given precisely enough.  
My particular worry is that when the variable wild is set by
action pickU, then some uncontrollable event l is enabled, and thus
the precondition for the default action does not hold, and thus the
uncontrollable event l is executed. This means that no controllable
event is executable if some uncontrollable event is executable (this
is my understanding of the semantics of FONDP, which are not given in
this paper). The semantics of DES suggest (it is not clear from the
definitions) that the next event to be executed is chosen
non-deterministically from amongst the set of enabled events, whether
or not this set contains uncontrollable events or not.

The claim that "The results show that the planning approach
outperforms the controller synthesis tools, but also suggest that
compositional analyses are more effective in some settings." seems
justified by the experimental results. From what I can tell, the
examples are toy examples rather than benchmarks from the DES
literature. As such, the experimental results supply a
proof-of-concept rather than a robust analysis. 

Significance:
This work supplies a connection between two very similar areas
of AI that have their own communities and that are known to be
similar. It is limited by the fact that it does not discuss the
relevance of the particular DES model studied.

The model of DES in this paper (Section 2.3) is said to be "based on
[Ramadge and Wonham, 1989]". However, there are a number of
differences, some superficial and some important, that are not
addressed, and so I am left unconvinced about the significance of the
model of DES in this paper. 

I point out the important differences:

1. Controllers in [Ramadge and Wonham, 1989] are functions that depend
on the trace seen so far, while in the present paper the controllers only
depend on the current state. 

2. The specification languages K in [Ramadge and Wonham, 1989] are
sublanguages of the set of finite traces generated by the DES, given 
by finite-state machines, while in the present paper the specifications 
are given as safety and co-safety goals on the product system. 

3. [Ramadge and Wonham, 1989] prove that there is a unique maximal
subspecification of the given specification K that can be controlled
(this is called the "optimal" or "minimally restrictive" or "supremal
controllable" sublanguage). One usually looks for a controller of this
optimal language (if one does not exist for K). 

A related notion is that of a controller that must disable events only 
when strictly necessary, and that under certain conditions there exists 
a unique such controller, see, e.g., Theorem 1 in "Bridging the Gap between 
Supervisory Control and Reactive Synthesis: Case of Full Observation and 
Centralized Control" by Ehlers et. al., 12th IFAC/IEEE Workshop on Discrete 
Event Systems Cachan, France. May 14-16, 2014. Again, one usually aims to 
compute this unique controller.


Relevance:
The paper will be of interest to the planning and
verification/synthesis communities at IJCAI.

Quality of writing:
The paper is mostly well written. That said, a number of objects are
vaguely defined, i.e., 
- the semantics of FOND with conditional effects are only vaguely
  described and do appear in the cited work. Indeed [Rintanen, 2003]
  supplies a richer syntax but no semantics for nondeterministic
  effects, and [Geffner and Bonet, 2013] provide a different syntax.
- "policy", "closed policy" and "strong plan" should be properly
  defined, e.g., what are "appropriate actions", how does a policy
  induce a set of executions, does a closed policy return a single
  action or at least one action for every non-goal state, etc.?
- what are the "set of labels" in the definitions of safety and
  co-safety?

The citation in the proof of Theorem 1 to [Piterman et al., 2006]
seems out of place since it neither discusses DES nor planning.
--

scores: 6 2 2 8 9 4 6


-- 
I could be persuaded to accept if the following could be established:

a) the model in this paper is rich enough to capture the essential properties that distinguish DES from planning and synthesis on graphs, 

b) the examples and empirical evaluation is interesting enough to either the planning or DES communities,

c) the translation is not "too simple" to be published at a premier AI conference.

Also: the link to the supplemental pdf on dropbox gives the name of the author and states that that person "will be notified" that I opened the pdf. It is unclear to me if the dropbox settings also devulged my dropbox name/username.
