This paper studies the following classification PROBLEM: given two sets of structures (of the same signature),
compute a formula of first-order logic that distinguishes them.

The paper considers various classes of structures (the most interesting being disjoint unions of linear orders).

The main result (Theorem 43) is that one can solve the PROBLEM for the various classes considered in polynomial time.
 

Comments.

1. The paper is poorly written.

- The introduction gets very specific very quickly and will not be understandable to anyone without a finite-model theory background.

- Explanations of mathematical objects and results, both in the introduction and in the body, need tightening:

e.g., Definitions/Theorems 14-17 are completely unexplained.

e.g., "The Hintikka formula φ mA,a describes the isomorphism
type of the substructure generated by a in A"

e.g.,
An m-Hintikka formula is a formula obtained from a struc-
ture A and a positive integer m that describes the gamethe-
oretic properties of A on the Ehrenfeucht–Fra ̈ıss ́e game with
m rounds [Ebbinghaus and Flum, 1995].

e.g.,
"The remoteness of sets A n and B m can be computed in
constant time"

This sentence is confusing, primarily because the input to
the problem is not specified. Also, I don't see how it is true
under any reasonable specification of the inputs. At best,
if the inputs are sets of finite structures coded in the usual way (e.g.,
list of elements, for each relation a list of the tuples in that relation),
the remoteness is computable in linear time.

e.g.,
"The decision version of the above problem is hard,
PSPACE-complete [Pezzoli, 1999], for first-order logic,
the class of all structures, and unary sets P and N ."
Why are P and N called unary sets?

e.g.,
Definition 3.9: what if there is no such formula? what should
the algorithm do in that case?

e.g.,
"The complexity to compute rem(P, N ) is
O(|P | × |N | × n^c ) such that n^c depends on C"

What is n? how does n^c depend on C?

e.g.,
Theorem 43
"Besides, the size of φ C P,N is polynomial
in the size of P and the large structure therein."
Which structure?




2. The related work is poorly discussed.

e.g.,
"An algorithm to cope with the problem of distinguishing
structures is presented in [Kaiser, 2012]."
What is the problem that is being coped with?

e.g.,
The definition of "remoteness" is uncited. Is it original to this paper? or, as the introduction seems to suggest,
it has appeared in Montanari et al., 2005?

e.g.,
The related work is sparse and spread over the paper making it hard to get
the "big picture" or a sense of the importance of the present contribution?

e.g.,
what is the *exact* relationship between the present contribution and the work
of Kaiser?

3. The mathematical results are preliminary and incremental.

e.g., lower-bounds or hardness results are not mentioned.


4. The relationship with AI is not clearly explained.

The authors state that their work has application to machine learning and automated planning.

Section 6 contains a hint of an application to blocks world (however, it is merely a hint, and there is no discussion about whether computing first-order formulas in the signature of orders is actually useful or relevant for solving or understanding blocks world).

To be accepted to a premier AI conference this aspect of the paper needs to be given full and
serious attention. In the context of this submission, Section 6 should be vastly expanded.












