This paper studies the model-checking problem for multi-agent systems generated
by pushdown automata and epistemic alternating-time temporal logics ATEL and ATEL*.

The game-structures are infinite-state, i.e., configuration spaces of pushdown
automata.  These are called PEGS in the paper (pushdown epistemic game
structures).  The indistuinguishability relations come in three flavours: "size
preserving" (introduced in [Aminof et al. 2013]), "regular" (which seem to be
new to this paper) and "simple" (a special case of "regular").

The paper is theoretical. The focus is on structures with perfect- and imperfect 
information and agents with imperfect-recall (i.e., memoryless strategies).

The main results are:
- undecidability of ATL_ir assuming size-preserving relations.
- 2EXPTIME-completeness of ATEL*_ir and EXPTIME-completeness for ATEL_ir
  assuming regular relations.

The upper-bounds are achieved by standard techniques and easy reductions to the
known perfect-information cases, and the lower-bounds are immediately inherited
from corresponding results about CTL(*).

On the positive side:
- this work presents a model of multi-agent system that combines two important
  aspects: infinite-state and imperfect-information.  Previous work either deals
  with finite-state or perfect-information.
- the paper is very well written and the results are sound.

On the negative side:

- There are no new proof techniques.

- The motivation for the model for an AI audience is weak (*).

- The future work mentions "implementation of our algorithms". However, 
given (*), I do not see the value of such a direction.

(*) I reviewed a previous version of this paper for AAAI17. Then, my main concern was 
that the motivation for an AI audience is weak. I wrote:

    1. Pushdown systems are standard in software verification because
    they abstract procedure calls. Where do PEGS appear in MAS/AI,
    i.e., what kinds of agents and situations would result in a PEG?
    In the terminology of "interpreted systems", what are the
    local states of an agent in a pushdown setting? 

    2. The types of indistinguishability-relations considered are not
    well motivated. In the setting of a pushdown MAS, how should one
    define agents with perfect-recall? with imperfect-recall? with
    bounded-recall? Perhaps "size-preserving" captures perfect-recall.
    But what type of agents do "simple" and "regular" relations
    capture?

The authors do discuss issue 1. In the introduction they state that
model-checking is undecidable taking the "synchronous product" of two
pushdown-agents (each with their own stacks). Thus, they focus on
agents that share a single stack. This is justified by arguing that 
in many scenarios a) an agent needs to explicitly keep track of its history, 
and b) all agents act synchronously (i.e., either all push or all pop).
The authors suggest that sychronous stack operations and explicit history 
is important to rollback canceled transactions in e-commerce or automated 
trading. I commend the authors for providing more justification of their 
model for an AI audience. Although not wholly convincing, it is certainly 
a step in the right direction.

The authors do not discuss issue 2, and I feel this is still a major 
shortcoming of this work. The definitions of the epistemic relations are 
not motivated or justified (except in so far as they are mathematically natural).

Overall: this is a theoretically sound paper but without good motivation, except 
in that it deals with multi-agent systems of imperfect information which are an 
important class of systems. I believe this work deserves to be published, but 
not at a premier AI venue.


Typos: 
Section 4: ATLE*




