This paper studies the parameterised model checking of fault tolerant
multi-agent systems.

The model is the asynchronous product of a finite but unknown number
of finite-state agents with a finite-state environment. At every point
in time, either a single process makes an "internal" transition, an
agent "handshakes" with the environment, or all the processes
(including the environment) perform a shared action. The specification
language is the universal fragment of branching epistemic logic.

This is a very rich model. 

The authors study the following decision problem: given templates for
the agents and environments, and a ratio lambda of correct to
incorrect processes, and a formula phi, decide if for all n, the
formula phi holds if at most n/lambda may develop faults.

This problem is undecidable in general.

The authors extend the open-source tool MCMAS and apply the algorithm
to verification of the Alpha swarm algorithm for swarm aggregation.
The results show that basic connectedness properties fail if more than
33% of the agents may fail.

The main technical idea is described on pg 5: it instruments the
agents and environments with an initialisation phase in which every
lambda steps exactly one agent is given the possibility to be faulty.

Originality
The problem adapts existing tools for parameterised model checking to
verify under the assumption that some fixed ratio of agents may be
faulty. The model has appeared previously, and the types of faults are 
based on existing taxonomies.

Technical Quality
The modeling seems technically sound. However, 
- many of the informal explanations of the types of faults refer to
  "random" errors. it is unclear if the tool developed can handle
  probability. 
- the authors seem to gloss over whether or not their model of the
  alpha swarm algorithm is rich enough to capture the original
  algorithm (e.g., is it an abstraction of the original?), 
  or is merely a variant suitable for illustration.
- there is no discussion of the limitations of the approach.


Significance
The approach, although very simple, seems like a powerful way to model
check given under resilience conditions. The paper does not discuss
whether this approach is meaningful or has potential for fault
tolerant distributed computing, nor whether the techniques in that
field may be useful for MAS.

Relevance
The paper will be of interest to the verification community at IJCAI.

The related work should be exanded:
- some discussion of resilience conditions in fault-tolerant
  distributed computing is missing.
- parameterised verification in the formal-methods community is very
  old. You may cite a recent survey of the field: Bloem et. al., 
  Decidability of Parameterized Verification. Synthesis Lectures on
  Distributed Computing Theory, Morgan & Claypool Publishers 2015
- unlike much of the literature, you deal with branching
  specifications. the theoretical framework with the most complete
  analysis of decidability for branching specifications is the
  token-passing system, see the recent paper: Aminof et. al., Model
  Checking Parameterised Multi-token Systems via the Composition
  Method. IJCAR 2016: 499-515
- the relationship with [Kouvaros and Lomuscio, 2015b] should be much
  more fully discussed, as to with [Winfield et al., 2005; Dixon et al.,
  2012]


Quality of writing
The paper is very well written and organised. A pleasure to read. 

Overall Score
6

Confidence on your assessment
10
