Multiple research positions available in Logic for AI at the School of Computer
Science, University of Sydney

The positions are: a PhD scholarship, research-internships, summer scholarships.

Specific topics of interest include: 
- Formal Methods (Verification, Synthesis, Monitoring) of Autonomous Systems,
  Multi-agent Systems and Distributed Systems
- Logics in Artificial Intelligence
- Foundations of Planning
- Automata and Games

The successful candidates will join the Computational Logic for Artificial
Intelligence (LOGIC-AI) group, led by Dr. Sasha Rubin.


PhD scholarship (3 years)
 
An ideal candidate for the PhD scholarship will be able to provide evidence of
a strong background in formal methods or mathematical sophistication, and prior
research experience.  The PhD scholarship includes:

1. Tuition fees.
2. A living allowance of 35,000AUD per year for 3 years, exempt from taxes,
with the potential of a topup of 5,000AUD per year, taxed.
3. Funding to present at workshops and conferences.
4. No teaching obligations, and the option of paid tutoring.

Interested candidates should email Sasha Rubin a CV, the contact information of
at least two references, and details of any prior research experience.
Candidates for the PhD scholarship may be asked to read and report on a recent
conference paper published in a conference such as AAAI, IJCAI, AAMAS, ICAPS,
KR, LICS, or CSL.  International students are encouraged to apply.
Applications will be processed as they arrive.


Research internship (3-6 months)

An ideal candidate for the research internship will be able to provide evidence
of a strong computational or mathematical background, and the potential to
pursue a PhD. The internship funding includes (subject to budget confirmation):

1. A single return flight to Sydney.
2. A weekly stipend to help cover rent.

Interested candidates should email Sasha Rubin a CV, an academic transcript,
the contact information of at least one reference, and details of any prior
research experience. Candidates for the research internship may be asked to
read and discuss a paper in the area. International students are encouraged to
apply.  Applications will be processed as they arrive.


Summer scholarship (10 weeks, approx December 2020 to February 2021, for
students enrolled at an Australian university)

An ideal candidate for the summer scholarship will have a strong background in
discrete mathematics and/or formal languages and logic. For details about the 2019 
summer scholarship see https://tinyurl.com/y4o4utmk 


Contact details

Sasha Rubin
sasha.rubin@sydney.edu.au
sasharubin.github.io

Informal enquiries are welcome.


Sydney

The School of Computer Science at The University of Sydney offers a first-class
research environment, and Sydney is consistently ranked 10th worldwide in the 
Mercer Quality of Living Survey.

The following quotation is from https://en.wikivoyage.org/wiki/Sydney:

"Sydney is the Harbour City. It is the largest, oldest and most cosmopolitan
city in Australia with an enviable reputation as one of the world's most
beautiful and liveable cities. Brimming with history, nature, culture, art,
fashion, cuisine and design, it is set next to miles of ocean coastline and
sandy surf beaches."

