2.1 Originality and impact of the project

The aim is to supply the theoretical foundations and build a tool for
monitoring properties of distributed systems.  Monitoring, also called
runtime verification, is used after deployment of the system for
ensuring reliability, safety, and security, and for providing fault
containment and recovery. Monitoring of classic non-distributed
systems is a well-established area in formal methods, e.g., with its
own international conference. Monitoring distributed systems, the
topic of this paper, is much newer, and there are many foundational
questions and problems to deal with. 

The proposed approach is to develop a framework for run-time
verification of distributed systems, by developing a logic that
combines epistemic operators, the mu-calculus, justification logic and
abstract argumentation theory. Although each ingredient is well-known,
e.g., epistemic operators are well-known for their use in analysing
distributed computation ("Reasoning about knowledge", Fagin et.al.),
the combination is quite original. 

According to "Challenges in Fault-tolerant Distributed Runtime
Verification" Bonakdarpour et. al., there are a number of open issues
in distributed runtime verification:
1. How to model an unreliable distributed RV system?
2. How is the correctness of the underlying system specified?
3. How many different verdicts are needed, and what is their meaning?
4. What is the meaning of a set of verdicts emitted by the monitors?
5. What is the process of giving feedback to the underlying system?

Dealing with even some of these questions would be valuable, both for
developing new theory that will impact the fields of logic and
verification, and for developing tools. The proposal seems to be
dealing mainly with 2., and 4. Notably missing from the proposal is
any discussion of 1.

The expected deliverables are papers in academic conferences,
journals, archives and links on a webpage, as well as a prototype tool
of the framework.

(score = 4 Very good)

2.2 Scientific quality and feasibility

On the positive side:
- the idea of using justification and argumentation in the context of
  distributed runtime verification is a good one since a monitor might
  receive a number of reports (together with their justifications), and 
  have to decide on the best-supported report. 
- the proposer notes a relationship between the attack relation in
  abstraction argumentation and a particular axiom of justification
  logic (negative introspection). This relationship forms the basis of
  a number of conjectures. 

On the negative side, the proposal only deals with the specification
logic side, and neglects the modeling side. Concretely: what model of
distributed system will be considered for study?

I also have some doubts about the suitability of some of the choices
in the proposed framework:

- Using the mu-calculus, which can express branching-time properties,
  for monitorability. Why not use a linear-time logic?  In fact, none
  of the examples in the proposal use fix-point operators. 
 
- Combining the mu-calculus with epistemic operators leads to a logic
  that, in my opinion, is not very natural, e.g., see the examples in
  "Alternating Epistemic Mu-Calculus", Bulling et. al.

- The proposer writes: "In the proposed approach, arguments would
  support propositions of the language; from these and perhaps other
  data, we can infer further conclusions." and "Given an argumentation
  framework, we may want to distinguish between arguments and
  propositions...".

  There is no mention of structured argumentation theory, e.g., "An
  abstract framework for argumentation with structured arguments",
  Prakken, which grounds the Dung's abstract framework with premises,
  conclusions and inferences. 

  Aside. Dung's original paper shows tight connections between
  abstract argumentation and modal logic. These connections should be
  discussed, especially in light of the sentence "We plan to introduce
  a framework that introduces Abstract Argumentation to Modal and
  Justification Logic. This would be a different approach from the
  ones that have already attempted to link argumentation to modal
  logic (ex. [16, 17, 18])..."

- The proposer writes about the need for a "timing mechanism" to infer
  the order of events from timestamps, and cites timed-automata and
  logic. There is no mention or comparison with Lamport's timestamps
  ("Time, clocks, and the ordering of events in a distributed system",
  Lamport) which discusses exactly the issue of defining and computing
  the order of events in systems with clocks that may not be
  synchronised.

- The literature review mentions a number of papers on distributed
  runtime verification, but the author does not identify any of them as
  forming a useful/natural basis for the proposed work. What is the
  reason for this?

- The proposer writes that previous work Baltag, Yavorskaya, and the
  proposer's own work, introduced a logic that combines dynamic
  epistemic logic, multi-agent justification logic, and argumentation,
  and studied the complexity of these logics, e.g. [40]. So, why is
  this logic not used as is? What is going to be novel wrt these
  works?

(score = 3 Good)

2.3 Principal investigator, other participants and project management

The proposer 
- has deep knowledge of justification logics, and has recently
  published on the topic of runtime verification with leading experts
  from Italy, Iceland and Malta, who are participants in the project.
- is not an expert in argumentation theory or distributed systems, and
  this is reflected in the proposal.

The structure, resources and management of the project seem adequate. 

The project will hire an MsC student to work on the prototype tool.

(score = 4 very good)

2.4 Impact on career development

    Project relevance to career plans of applicant.
    Future cooperation with host institution.

Funding such a project would have significant and real impact on the
career of the applicant who recently completed a PhD and is on his
second postdoc.  The project would support and enhance ties between
researchers in Italy, Malta and Reykjavik University.

(score = 5 excellent)

3.1 Overall strengths

- The proposal aims to supply a framework for monitoring of
  distributed systems, something that is clearly missing from this
  fairly new and important area. 
- The proposal is quite novel, and plans to bring together a number of
  different formalisms to define a specification and reasoning
  framework. 
- The applicant is an expert in some of these formalisms.
- The project would have a real and significant impact on the career
  of the applicant. It would support and enhance ties between
  researchers in Italy, Malta and Reykjavik University. 


3.2 Overall weaknesses

- The proposal promises a "framework for distributed runtime
  verification" but focuses on specification and reasoning, and
  neglects  the problem of how to model such systems. 
- Although each of the ingredients in the framework have a role to
  play, combining some of them results in unnatural specification
  languages. 
- Existing background literature (some of it classic) is not taken
  into account.


