SCIENTIFIC OVERVIEW

This proposal considers the problem of reasoning about the dynamics of knowledge
in multi-agent systems. The topic is relevant for verification of multi-agent
systems, and thus for AI. The reason for this is that the motivating scenarios
all include multiple agents with partial observability. Indeed, even simple
logics and simple DEL structures can capture quite complex scenarios including
tricky epistemic puzzles, multi-player games, security problems, etc.

Automating reasoning typically requires a) a framework for modeling the systems,
b) a logical language for expressing properties of interest, and c) algorithms
for deciding if a given model satisfies a given logical formula. 

This proposal focuses on a) DEL structures, b) epistemic logics, and c)
algorithms based automata-theory.

In a little more detail: 

a) A DEL structure is a (typically infinite) graph that is generated from an
epistemic model M and an event model E. It is a useful formalism for capturing
the dynamics of time and knowledge in multi-agent systems.

A structure is automatic if its domain and atomic relations are synchronous
rational sets/relations. The automata may operate on finite or infinite words
and trees. Automatic structures can be queried algorithmically, i.e., have
decidable first-theory theory. 

The focus of the proposal is on automatic DEL structures.

b) Epistemic Logic (EL) is a simple modal logic that can express what agents
know at a particular point in time. EL can express higher-order knowledge, e.g.,
agent i knows that agent j knows that p is true, which is useful in many
realistic settings. 

The focus of the proposal is on EL and some of its generalisations (e.g.,
CTL*Kn).

c) The main algorithmic problem is to solve epistemic planning, e.g., to decide,
given a DEL structure and an EL formula Phi, if there exists a node in the DEL
structure (corresponding to a sequence of events) that satisfies Phi (and to
compute a representation of all such sequences).

The proposed methodology is to understand which classes of DEL structures are
automatic and how these automatic presentations can be exploited for solving 
planning.

PROPOSAL EVALUATION

The proposal covers a lot of background material: epistemic logic, first-order
logic, monadic second-order logic, automatic structures, model-checking,
synthesis, event models, dynamic epistemic logics and structures, decidability
and complexity results. Some of the cited work are theses, which, by their
length, are hard to navigate. This breadth is to be commended. The proposed
techniques, i.e., using automata theory and automatic structures to reason about
DEL structures, is promising.

The document itself is well-structured, I found no spelling mistakes and only a
few typos. The grammar varies in quality: many sentences are very hard to parse,
especially in sections 4 and 5. The title and abstract do a reasonable job of
summarising the proposal, although both could have been fine-tuned. The document
is written in LaTeX, and the formatting, although passable, could have used a
polish. Citations are sometimes not fine enough (e.g., a thesis is cited for a
specific un-named theorem), and sometimes missing all together (e.g., from
Tables 1 and 2).

My overall impression of the content is that the author has absorbed a lot of
material, but does not yet know what to emphasise, i.e., which definitions must
be given formally and which can be discussed informally, which existing results
are good starting points for the proposed research, etc.

In detail:
- The definitions of the objects being studied are sometimes formal and clear,
  and other times informal and less clear. Writing clear but informal
  definitions is a skill worth acquiring.

- The survey of existing work is comprehensive but not well organised. In fact,
  it is difficult to parse the text to understand exactly what is known. That
  said, the existing work is itself spread across multiple papers with multiple
  notations.

- I could not get a systematic and clear understanding of what
  theorems/conjectures are to be used as starting points for the proposed
  research. In particular, I would have liked to have seen more explicit
  directions in the prospective methodology.  
  
  For instance, the following broad directions are only implicit in the
  proposal: a) give conditions on M and E that ensure that the generated DEL
  structure is automatic (and, more generally, tree-automatic);  b) see if and
  how one can exploit the automatic presentation itself in order to achieve
  better complexity/decidability results for automatic DEL structures (as was
  done for chain-MSO).  
  
  Regarding a), probably the most relevant existing result is the one from
  Maub14 (Section 7.2). This result should have been emphasised.

RELATED IDEAS

Here are some related ideas worth considering.

- A fuller discussion of related work would cite work on planning (in AI) and
  verification (in CAV) of infinite state structures.  Regarding the latter, see
  e.g., Automata-based presentations of infinite structures. Vince Bárány, Erich
  Grädel, Sasha Rubin

- I would have liked to see a compelling scenario/application modeled as an
  automatic DEL structure.

- As always, there is a trade-off between the expressiveness of a logic and the
  class of structures that can be model-checked. I suggest starting with the
  simplest logics and finding the most general class of systems for which model
  checking is decidable.  
  
  To that end, consider Epistemic Logic and DEL structures that are rational,
  i.e., the domain, labeling (for each atom), and relation (for each agent) are
  given by asynchronous automata. Epistemic planning on such "rational DEL
  structures" is decidable (compare with: Symbolic model checking of tense
  logics on rational Kripke models. Wilmari Bekker, Valentin Goranko).

  Question: are there interesting rational DEL structures that are not also
  automatic?

OTHER COMMENTS

Here is a list of poorly defined/undefined notions, i.e.:

Section 2
- "purely epistemic event models"
- "ontic event models"
- "DEL structure"
- semantics of CTL*Kn

Section 3
- in the definition of automatic structure, if you have a countably infinite
  signature, then it is reasonable to additionally assume that 1) the signature
  is computable, and 2) the function mapping a relation symbol R_i to an
  automaton for L_{R_i} is computable (as is done for interpretations). on the
  other hand, one might be able to dispense with infinite signatures (?)
- "injective automatic presentation"
- "regular automatic tree"

Section 4
- "epistemic planning problem"
- there seems to be some confusion between model-checking, synthesis and
  realisability. What the author calls "synthesis" might be better called "query
  evaluation", and what the author calls "model-checking" might be better called
  "realisability".

Section 5
- tables 1 and 2: the captions are not informative. What do all the entries
  mean? What logic is being model-checked?
